Welcome back everyone to this quick lecture on the delete clause as you may have expected.
We can use the delete clause to remove rows from a table.
For example we could say something like delete from.
Then choose the table name where and then some sort of condition such as column row idea.
Equal to one.
And this would remove the rows to have a row idea of one we can delete rows based on their presence
in other tables.
For example we could say delete from table A using table B or table a that I.D. is equal to Table B
the idea essentially where there happens to be a match in between these two tables will go ahead and
delete those rows from table A.
You can almost think about this in the same way that we had an update join.
This would be kind of like a delete.
Join and then we can delete all rows from a table by simply saying delete from table similar to the
update command.
You can also add in a returning call at the very end to return rows that were removed to see what was
removed from the table.
Let's go ahead and just quickly explore this with P.G. Ataman okay.
Here I am in P.G. admin what I'm going to do is just explore the job table so say select from job and
right now we have two jobs astronaut and president.
Let's go ahead and add in a new job and then we'll go ahead and remove it.
So to add a new job we already know that we just say insert into the job table.
We only need specify the job name column since.
Job I.D. is a serial key and they'll be automatically filled in for us.
So we simply say job job.
Name values and we can choose some values here.
So I can say something like let's go ahead and say cowboy as our job we run this.
And that worked out for us.
So I say select from job we see now cowboy is the third job.
Let's go ahead now delete that.
So we'll say delete from.
And then we say the table name and if I just ran this this would delete all the jobs.
So I want to specify a condition.
And there's lots of options here but I could say something like where a job name is equal to Cowboy
and then I can also add in a returning call to actually see the columns that were removed.
So I'll add that in as well.
So what they're saying is delete from the job table where the job name column is equal to Cowboy and
then return the rows that were deleted.
Job I.D. and job name.
So I run this and now it returns back the rows that were deleted.
Keep in mind if I were to try to run this a second time I don't get anything back because it was already
deleted the first time which means there was nothing to delete the second time around.
So if I now say select everything from the job table I see only astronaut and president.
OK so pretty straightforward.
That's the syntax for the delete statement.
Thanks and we'll see you at the next lecture.